			FlightThrill GAMEPLAY MANUAL

PRE-PLAY
	You must have a terrain file.  The program itself does not come with
	terrains; it is only able to load a separate text file containing
	terrain data.  Information on creating such file is outside the scope
	of this document.

	Also, it is not recommended to play on terminals that are not at least
	100 rows in height -- you will not have the desired granularity of
	copter control.

PLAY
	When the game first begins, your helicopter is resting on its "launch
	pad", waiting for you to begin ascent.  As soon as ascent begins, the
	helicopter will not stop or slow down until either the terrain ends or
	until it collides.

	At some points during your flight you may encounter objects (other
	than walls) in your path.  Those are special shield packs that, if
	triggered, give your helicopter temporary protection from collision.
	Here is how it works: when you guide the copter to a block where a
	shield exists, the shield will disappear and your status bar will
	display your new shielded status and how much longer you can rely on
	this wonder.  Each new shield is configured with its own lifetime
	period which is added to the helicopter's total protection duration.
	The lifetime period of each shield is specified in the terrain file.
	While you are shielded, you are somewhat impervious to collisions.  If
	you collide with anything while protected, you will be "bounced" to
	the middle of empty space in that part of the terrain and your
	acceleration will be nullified.
	(See "known issues.txt" for a... known issue... with shields.)

	At any time, you may press the F1 key to pause the game.  Use the same
	key to unpause it.  A pause affects absolutely nothing in the game --
	your position, velocity, acceleration, and protection are unchanged.

POST-PLAY
	The game ends if you either collide with anything while unshielded or
	if you reach the end of the terrain.  After the game ends, it displays
	statistics about your play and calculates a score.  The score depends
	on the distance that your copter traveled and the amount of fuel you
	used.


Last update: 19 July 2004
